Okay,
guys.
And welcome back to another student.
Questions answered.
Now,
this is the second part of a question from Karen.
The first part answered in level two,
which was around using villa cups to pull images.
So rather than just pulling the text out of a table,
it was actually pulling an image.
Now,
this is part two of the question.
Karen has a database,
a huge data set that she needs to use to create individual PD APS.
Now,
those pdf's contain images.
But as you will probably know,
if you add an image to an excel worksheet,
it increases the size significantly.
Now imagine if you act had had to add 1000 images,
then you work.
She's gonna become so you just gonna be unusable.
So what we're gonna do here is we're going to use this day to table that we're looking at,
and we're going to specify a path to a picture,
and then we're gonna pull the picture at runtime.
OK,
so a quick word on the set up here.
What I have is a few tabs to get your code here,
where all post the finish code and you can just paste that into a module,
there'll be a few downloadable Resource is from this lecture that with this spreadsheet
sequential PDF creation with pictures.
And they'll also be the pictures that are currently living in this location.
And just say your name.
These are those pictures on They all have the same name as the unique Identify IRS here.
Now,
if your pictures have a different name than,
obviously,
just specify the name of your picture in another column,
but be sure to add the extension.
So if there j pegs dot j p e g.
Okay,
so a note on the pictures,
especially if they all have the same aspect ratio now all of my pictures of 300 by 300 more
real s,
but we're going to scale them to make them fit in the template.
Okay,
so we have this sheet here.
We have that.
This is what I want.
No,
If you have 1000 records in here,
it could be that you don't want to create pdf's for all 1000.
So that's why I always use a list like this,
and we can just have the ones that we want to do.
Hit the cone or generate them.
Now,
the other sheet.
Is this the template?
Now what I'm gonna do to find that web print,
borders would bay this can hit control MP and then come back and you can see that we have
this dotted line here and I'm gonna use that as a guide.
So I know how big to make my picture.
Now,
this is very crude.
Number C at the finished result that Karembeu but that Cameron will be working on will be
much more sophisticated,
I'm sure,
but this is just for the purposes of illustration.
What we have here is the unique identify which we're gonna pull from this list on.
What we have here is just a basic V look up,
which is looking up the first name from the data sheet.
And here Avi,
look of looking at the second name from the data sheet.
So they're they're essentially a couple of bits of code that we're gonna need to record.
What we're going to need to do is record a macro to add a picture,
and then we'll modify that.
We're going to record a macro to say of a pdf on,
then we'll modify that.
And then we need to record a macro to delete the picture that we've just placed.
Because obviously,
when we go through the next iteration,
then we're gonna want a new image there and not just stack the images one on top of the
other.
But first,
a quick notes on the set up of of what this looks like in V B A.
So I'm just gonna shrink this in for a second on bring you over to I think that should do
it.
Actually,
they get So I've actually added VB names for some of the sheets.
So the data sheet here it's called shirt data.
The shut my list where the ones that were going to generate here is called Shirt.
My list on the template is called shirt template.
Now,
that way I can call them by their VB names.
So first things first,
let's let's let's just record the shell of the code.
So I'm gonna insert a module.
I'm gonna give myself a couple of lines so I can declare things above.
I want to call this sub get get data.
So that will,
Dave,
on what?
This is gonna be well look at this one to call it a fight based Phoebe a name.
Anyway,
what we want to do is do while we're gonna call it based Phoebe Names,
so shit,
whatever Called it Shut my list.
Ship my list.
Dots range open brackets A to don't value doesn't equal blank loop.
So while this value here in a two doesn't equal blank,
this loop is going to continue to execute.
Now,
what we're gonna do is capture the data.
So this is RV.
Look of value.
This C s one hears on and do you say on my item equals and I'm just gonna put zero for a
second,
because that is exactly what I want to capture their so that I'm just gonna copy and paste
it inside.
Just test that code from bomb bump and you can see that we captured CS one there.
So far,
so good.
Now,
what I'm gonna do is declare this valuable at the top because I'm gonna pass it to the
other subject we're gonna record in a second.
So hopes dim that as stringing on while I'm here.
I'm gonna say dim my path as stringing they go.
This will be fully rammed by the time you download it.
Now,
here.
What I'm gonna do is I'm gonna use this my item that we've captured to capture this path
Now,
we'll see if you've got a bunch of different past you as long as you specify them against
the correct entry that all your pictures don't have to sit in the same directory.
They can be all separate Notice,
though,
that we have a slash at the end.
So here,
I'm gonna say,
What did I call it?
My path equals,
Say application.
Don't cheat function.
There we go.
Rips left cheek function.
Don't V look up open rackets.
Now,
I've already captured the Let me just make them a little bit bigger.
I've already captured the look of value as my items.
I'm going to say my item Comma on now,
this is where we want to look.
We want to look in shit.
Data don't range.
I'm just gonna hard coded this,
But obviously you can use current region if you need to.
On the data sets from A to A to to I think it's d six groups strengthening a bit two d six
.
Yet so bumba woman.
All of them from a to two d six.
Andi,
that's our range.
I want to pull from column four.
So 1234 That's going to give me my path cover.
And I want an exact match.
False.
And so they go that Let's just test that s o bump my item.
CS one my path.
And there we have the path that export from their use in the look up.
Okay,
so so far so good.
Now,
at the end of this loop,
I'm just gonna listen.
No,
but I'm not going to execute it.
What I want to say is shut my list A to copy.
I'm just gonna pace that in there.
What?
I want to do that saying,
got entire row dot Delete On that way,
Once we've actually executed and creating a pdf off CS one,
we want to delete the whole of this line delete.
So therefore,
this becomes the new way to,
and that's going to go through the next and create the next template.
So that essentially,
is the bones of the looping code.
So I'm just going to stop that Running for a second comes to the template.
Now,
what I'm gonna do is I am going to,
um we're gonna did First,
we're gonna place a picture,
so I'm gonna just open the sound second,
just so conceal the buttons.
I'm gonna hit record of my macro.
Say,
get pick as our first macro Mormon do is come to insert pictures of navigated to the my
picks file.
Obviously pick whichever one where wherever you keeping yours.
Just double click there.
I missed a bit there.
Actually wanted to select that sulks.
That's where I wanted to paste it from.
Um okay,
we can correct that.
One know when we modify the code and I'm gonna make that a little bit bigger and just drop
that they're okay.
Ons stop.
So that's Ah,
get picture.
The next thing I'm gonna do is I'm gonna say delete because we want to delete it rather
than stack in the morning on top of the other.
So now I'm just going to select the picture hit delete Andi,
pick herself at random on hit Stop.
And the next thing I want to do is capture the code for saving a pdf so record macron save
P d.
F from here.
Women hit F 12 on.
Do you can see that?
This is I'm just gonna call it test for now.
We're going to save it.
Change in a second anyway.
And this is also saving to my picks.
Obviously can save you wherever you want to save it.
Now you can't seeks.
It's slightly out a shot,
but at the bottom of this list or near the bottom,
we have P.
D efs were gonna pick pdf,
click the options and just check that you have active sheets on if you happy hit.
Okay,
It's okay.
Well,
then just click a button on,
then hit.
Stop.
And they are our three pieces of code.
Now,
what we need to do I'm gonna close that for a second.
I'm just gonna grab all the macros that we've just recorded and drop him underneath here.
So we have the get another close that next we can actually see what we're doing.
We have to get pick code.
So I said I wanted to pick that fair,
so I'm just gonna still easel of this rubbish in the game.
I'm gonna the first England did,
actually.
Slight right sheet,
so sure.
Temp I can't type and talk template,
not select.
So we're selecting the right sheet.
We're gonna go to sell a nine,
and here you can see that we have active.
She pictures insert on what we have there for drinking and add a little bit more.
What we have there is exactly what we've captured.
Two are variable my path.
So all of that,
I am gonna change too.
My path,
Andi Now see,
s one,
as it turns out,
is also my item.
So I'm gonna change this C s one and call that my item.
Andi,
I do need that extension dot j peg.
So they go.
That is gonna pull the appropriate picture,
depending on what lying?
Well,
what value havin a to in this list here.
Now,
um,
I selected the sheet.
I don't need to do that.
I actually know what the answers to these questions are here,
But what we do need to do here is because the picture will be called picture on the first
time you pace one picture,
do the second time picture through the third time.
So what we need to do is actually captured the name of the picture so saying my pick equals
I'm just gonna put zero for a second and we can see that this whips.
We can see that this refers to the picture that we just paste it.
We've got shaping shape,
rain,
shape,
range all the way down.
So I'm just gonna copy that Pay sitting there on,
say,
Dr Name and that will capture the name of the picture that we just paint paste it.
Now I'm going to get rid of almost everything here up to that.
Now what I want to do is say height equals 400.
This is in pixels because although their pictures of 300 they look better for 400.
That's a trial and everything I've just seen just did it when I was writing the code.
And they also know through a little bit of experimentation that the left increments is 15
on the top.
Increment is zero.
So that's gonna place our picture Now what we want to do then,
is call the what didn't call it saved the PD.
Absolutely cool.
Save pt f on.
That's going to make our code bounce down to here.
Now we can get rid of the change directory.
We don't need that.
But again,
you can see here that we have the special that how it specified the path.
We can build this up out of the information that we already have.
So this bit right here is my path on and on,
and then we won't probably want to give it the name of the my item.
Essentially.
So my item,
Andi,
But we do want to have dot p the f after the name,
and that's going to give us our safe p d f.
So let's just step through that code.
So far,
so what we've got.
So my item is a s one.
My path is whatever it is from that V.
Look up.
Oh,
I forgot to do a call to get picked at night.
So I call get pick.
All right,
let's try that again.
So here we go all the way through,
and we know jumping down to here.
Sure,
Template select.
The one thing I do need to do is say range on ditz.
This cell here,
which is a to A to got value,
equals my item that's going to drop the item in there,
which is going to trigger this feel.
Look up in this feel.
Look up!
So f eight f eight they go.
We know of actually Sanford Range a nine.
That's where I want to pace my picture.
My path are pulled from the V.
Look up my eyes.
Um,
I've just read from near the sheet.
I'm attaching dot j pic select.
And there's our picture of actually,
I'm going to capture the name of the picture picture,
too.
And I'm going to change the height to 400 drank this across a bit so you can see that this
is working.
Hey,
left 50 that more or less life stop in the centre,
Andi,
then top zero.
Now I'm gonna have another piece code there before I call.
And that's the delete code,
which is essentially this bit here.
So answer a few times on.
And that's balance Now.
We don't need the selected in selection doctor elite.
We can get rid of all that and just say,
don't delete,
but rather saying picture warm.
It's actually going to be now called.
Our was my pick,
so they wouldn't just say my pick.
Are we good?
So safe?
Pdf and we're going to come down here and there.
My path and my item are being built dynamically.
Uh,
Bain,
Jeff eight.
Select something that's redundant.
We don't need that Their fate Active sheet shapes range or ate my pick picture to dunk
elite.
Now we have a blank.
Now we're going to delete the entire row in A to So that way,
when we looked through again,
my item is going to be e f one.
And,
well,
it's same patterns.
It happens,
But then we can just scroll through and we get a picture of Emma on dende and scroll
through on.
Then we get Danny Jones.
Bum,
bum bum.
I'm just gonna run that out.
So there you go.
What we know should have in our folder and said,
Look,
12345 foot.
But we can delete that one going with the test s one,
which I tell you where you reduce the size of this eye and then we go.
I was gonna say,
I hate Mike.
Ah,
hey,
Microsoft edge a window stand.
Whatever it is,
it's causing this to happen.
I have no idea Excrement.
So they go,
we have a pdf off.
Actually,
Stanford take my word for it.
There we go.
We have Cream Washington,
and we have a PdF for D.
J.
One.
Obviously,
these can be a sophisticated as you need them to be,
isn't she Lovely deli on D E.
F.
One.
And there's my good friend Emma Forbes.
So that's how you do it.
As always,
if you have any questions,
just dropped me a note in the Q and and I'll be happy to help.
Have a great day.